---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Deploy and Interact with Lottery Game Smart Contract

In this step, we will deploy our Lottery Game smart contract to the aelf Testnet Sidechain (tDVW).

## Step 1: Building Smart Contract

First, let’s compile and build our smart contract.

Navigate to the **lottery_game/src** directory and run the following command:

```bash title="Terminal"
dotnet build
```

You should see `LotteryGame.dll.patched` in the directory **lottery_game/src/bin/Debug/net.6.0**.

With our smart contract successfully compiled, we are now ready to deploy it!

## Step 2: Deploying Your Smart Contract

import DeploySmartContract from "@site/docs/\_deploy-smart-contract.md";

<DeploySmartContract/>

:::tip
ℹ️ Note: Copy the smart contract address ($CONTRACT_ADDRESS) as we will reference it in the next step.
:::

## Step 3: Interacting with your Lottery Game Contract

### Step 3.1: Approving Smart Contract Spending
To interact with a smart contract on aelf, you need to approve the spending of specific tokens from a specific smart contract. Here, we will approve our Lottery Game smart contract to spend tokens on our behalf.

```bash title="Terminal"
aelf-command send ASh2Wt7nSEmYqnGxPPzp4pnVDU4uhj1XW9Se5VeZcX2UDdyjx -a $WALLET_ADDRESS -p $WALLET_PASSWORD -e https://tdvw-test-node.aelf.io Approve
```

:::tip
`ASh2Wt7nSEmYqnGxPPzp4pnVDU4uhj1XW9Se5VeZcX2UDdyjx` is the contract address of Multitoken Contract on aelf Testnet Sidechain (tDVW).
:::   

When prompted, enter the following parameters to approve the spending of 90 ELF tokens:

```bash title="Terminal"
Enter the params one by one, type `Enter` to skip optional param:
? Enter the required param <spender>: $CONTRACT_ADDRESS
? Enter the required param <symbol>: ELF
? Enter the required param <amount>: 9000000000
```

:::tip
You may interact with your contract through this tool: https://aelf-contract-view.vercel.app/
:::

### Step 3.2: Initializing Lottery Game Contract

```bash title="Terminal"
aelf-command send $CONTRACT_ADDRESS -a $WALLET_ADDRESS -p $WALLET_PASSWORD -e https://tdvw-test-node.aelf.io Initialize
```

This command initializes the contract and sets your $WALLET_ADDRESS as the owner of the contract.

### Step 3.3: Depositing funds into the Lottery Game Contract

```bash title="Terminal"
aelf-command send $CONTRACT_ADDRESS -a $WALLET_ADDRESS -p $WALLET_PASSWORD -e https://tdvw-test-node.aelf.io Deposit
```

Enter the amount you would like to deposit from your wallet. Remember that each token has different decimal values. For ELF, the decimal value is 8, so a value of 100,000,000 is equivalent to 1 ELF.

### Step 3.4: Playing the Lottery Game

```bash title="Terminal"
aelf-command send $CONTRACT_ADDRESS -a $WALLET_ADDRESS -p $WALLET_PASSWORD -e https://tdvw-test-node.aelf.io Play
```

Enter the amount you would like to play with from your wallet. Each time you play, there is a 50% chance you might win!

You may check your wallet's current ELF balance to see if you won or lost:
```bash title="Terminal"
aelf-command call ASh2Wt7nSEmYqnGxPPzp4pnVDU4uhj1XW9Se5VeZcX2UDdyjx -a $WALLET_ADDRESS -p $WALLET_PASSWORD -e https://tdvw-test-node.aelf.io GetBalance
```
You will be prompted for the following:  
Enter the required param <symbol\>: **ELF**  
Enter the required param <owner\>: **$WALLET_ADDRESS**

You should see the Result displaying your wallet's ELF balance.

## Step 4: Conclusion

You have now reached the end of the lottery game contract tutorial. You can invite your friends to play your lottery game contract using their ELF tokens. Here’s a recap of what you have learned:

1. Develop and Deploy: You developed and deployed a smart contract that utilizes the MultiToken System Contract.  
1. Contract References: You learned how to reference other deployed contracts within your smart contract.  

By mastering these skills, you are now equipped to build more complex and integrated smart contracts on the aelf platform. Happy coding!